{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red193\green193\blue193;\red255\green255\blue84;\red255\green255\blue102;
\red18\green139\blue2;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
--- Day 1: Inverse Captcha ---\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The night before Christmas, one of Santa's Elves calls you in a panic. "The printer's broken! We can't print the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 Naughty or Nice List\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0 !" By the time you make it to sub-basement 17, there are only a few minutes until midnight. "We have a big problem," she says; "there must be almost \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 fifty\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  bugs in this system, but nothing else can print The List. Stand in this square, quick! There's no time to explain; if you can convince them to pay you in \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc4 stars\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0 , you'll be able to--" She pulls a lever and the world goes blurry.\
When your eyes can focus again, everything seems a lot more pixelated than before. She must have sent you inside the computer! You check the system clock: \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 25 milliseconds\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  until midnight. With that much time, you should be able to collect all \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc4 fifty stars\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  by December 25th.\
Collect stars by solving puzzles. Two puzzles will be made available on each \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strike \strikec2 day\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strike0\striked0  millisecond in the advent calendar; the second puzzle is unlocked when you complete the first. Each puzzle grants \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc4 one star\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0 . Good luck!\
You're standing in a room with "digitization quarantine" written in LEDs along one wall. The only door is locked, but it includes a small interface. "Restricted Area - Strictly No Digitized Users Allowed."\
It goes on to explain that you may only leave by solving a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAPTCHA"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
captcha}} to prove you're \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 not\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  a human. Apparently, you only get one millisecond to solve the captcha: too fast for a normal human, but it feels like hours to you.\
The captcha requires you to review a sequence of digits (your puzzle input) and find the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 sum\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  of all digits that match the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 next\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  digit in the list. The list is circular, so the digit after the last digit is the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 first\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  digit in the list.\
For example:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1122 produces a sum of 3 (1 + 2) because the first digit (1) matches the second digit and the third digit (2) matches the fourth digit.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1111 produces 4 because each digit (all 1) matches the next.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1234 produces 0 because no digit matches the next.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
91212129 produces 9 because the only digit that matches the next one is the last digit, 9.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 What is the solution\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  to your captcha?\
Your puzzle answer was 1343.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
--- Part Two ---\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
You notice a progress bar that jumps to 50% completion. Apparently, the door isn't yet satisfied, but it did emit a \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc4 star\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  as encouragement. The instructions change:\
Now, instead of considering the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 next\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  digit, it wants you to consider the digit \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 halfway around\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  the circular list. That is, if your list contains 10 items, only include a digit in your sum if the digit 10/2 = 5 steps forward matches it. Fortunately, your list has an even number of elements.\
For example:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1212 produces 6: the list contains 4 items, and all four digits match the digit 2 items ahead.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1221 produces 0, because every comparison is between a 1 and a 2.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
123425 produces 4, because both 2s match each other, but no other digit has a match.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
123123 produces 12.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
12131415 produces 4.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 What is the solution\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  to your new captcha?\
Your puzzle answer was 1274.\cf2 \
}