{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red193\green193\blue193;\red255\green255\blue84;\red255\green255\blue102;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
--- Day 2: Corruption Checksum ---\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
As you walk through the door, a glowing humanoid shape yells in your direction. "You there! Your state appears to be idle. Come help us repair the corruption in this spreadsheet - if we take another millisecond, we'll have to display an hourglass cursor!"\
The spreadsheet consists of rows of apparently-random numbers. To make sure the recovery process is on the right track, they need you to calculate the spreadsheet's \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 checksum\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0 . For each row, determine the difference between the largest value and the smallest value; the checksum is the sum of all of these differences.\
For example, given the following spreadsheet:\
5 1 9 5\
7 5 3\
2 4 6 8\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The first row's largest and smallest values are 9 and 1, and their difference is 8.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The second row's largest and smallest values are 7 and 3, and their difference is 4.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The third row's difference is 6.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In this example, the spreadsheet's checksum would be 8 + 4 + 6 = 18.\
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 What is the checksum\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  for the spreadsheet in your puzzle input?\
Your puzzle answer was 51833.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
--- Part Two ---\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
"Great work; looks like we're on the right track after all. Here's a \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc4 star\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  for your effort." However, the program seems a little worried. Can programs \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 be\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  worried?\
"Based on what we're seeing, it looks like all the User wanted is some information about the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 evenly divisible values\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  in the spreadsheet. Unfortunately, none of us are equipped for that kind of calculation - most of us specialize in bitwise operations."\
It sounds like the goal is to find the only two numbers in each row where one evenly divides the other - that is, where the result of the division operation is a whole number. They would like you to find those numbers on each line, divide them, and add up each line's result.\
For example, given the following spreadsheet:\
5 9 2 8\
9 4 7 3\
3 8 6 5\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In the first row, the only two numbers that evenly divide are 8 and 2; the result of this division is 4.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In the second row, the two numbers are 9 and 3; the result is 3.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In the third row, the result is 2.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In this example, the sum of the results would be 4 + 3 + 2 = 9.\
What is the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad\shadx0\shady0\shadr100\shado255 \shadc0 sum of each row's result\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\shad0  in your puzzle input?\
Your puzzle answer was 288.}